>> Todd Gardner: That was a lot.
That was a lot.
We talked about the importance of
web performance, why you care?
We talked about all these different
metrics, all the different ways you
can measure it, all the different things
that to consider about data points.
We talked about testing and tools.
We talked about setting appropriate goals,
and we spent a long time talking
about improving your actual
web performance metric.
Some very like concrete
tactics to look at and
improve each of your performance
metrics and make them better.
Along the way we also looked at
waterfall charts, flame charts,
some statistics, a bunch of stuff.
So now it's time,
just like at the end of every year,
to conduct your performance review.
We're gonna go through that.
All right, a couple of key points
that I just want to underline and
make sure you walk away with.
Why is web performance important?
There's three main things that make web
performance important to you, to me,
to businesses all over the world.
One, user experience.
Making sure the user has
the right expectation and
that expectation is met about
what your website does.
Second, SEO, if you're publicly facing,
if you care about page rank, you gotta be
fast to get onto that first page and make
sure your site gets the traffic it needs.
And third,
if you're doing online advertising,
you're really just pissing money away
if you don't keep your site fast,
your bounce rate skyrockets,
people don't stay on the page.
You're paying money for
clicks that don't last.
Some notes about user expectations.
40% of users abandon a site if it's not
visibly ready in three seconds, and
75% of them just won't come back
if they feel the site is slow.
These are general expectations
of users on the web in 2024.
And so if we don't hit something
like these expectations,
you're gonna lose a lot of traffic, you're
gonna lose a lot of return customers.
SEO, this was a big thing that has
happened in the last couple of years.
The core web vitals specifically
are part of the page experience metrics
which directly impact
your page rank score.
If you wanna be on the first page
of Google, you gotta be fast.
What are those core web vitals?
We've talked about them a lot.
The largest contentful paint,
the cumulative layout shift and
interaction to next paint.
If you care about SEO,
you need to know what your scores are for
these three things from real users.
LCP, how fast your site visibly
loads the most important element.
It's to be faster than 2.5 seconds.
It's cumulative layout shift,
how smooth and
predictably elements load on your page.
There needs to be less than point one
shifts over the course of the page load.
And finally,
interaction to next paint, INP,
how well users can interact
with your site, how fast feels.
Is to be less than 200 milliseconds.
Now, these are targets that Google has
set for these three metrics for SEO.
But your speed targets might be different
if you care about intranet sites or
if you care about other metrics.
So how deciding how
fast is fast enough for
you comes down to who your users are and
what you're trying to do.
When you look at your data, you need
to make sure that the data that you're
looking at for
performance is the right data.
If you're looking at lab data from
lighthouse, page speed insights,
webpage tests, those sort of tools,
that is lab data and it's diagnostic.
You are going in and you need to assume
that there's already something that you
were looking at and trying to fix.
Because just because any one of those
tools tell you your site is fast does not
mean it's fast.
If those things tell you it's slow,
it probably means it's slow, but
not for sure.
How do you know that for sure?
You look at field data.
Field data is the real
experience of your users.
Field data comes from Crux,
the Chrome user experience report,
which is publicly available for
publicly crawlable internet sites, or
it comes from RUM tools, real user
data tools, real user monitoring tools
that allow you to capture that real
user experience from your users.
When you're looking at data and you're
trying to decide what things to measure,
you always got follow your
business metrics, and
this is the golden thing
that you're looking for.
Which of your performance measurements
can you create a correlation with
a business metric?
If you can create these correlations,
this gives you the incentive and
the direct reason to spend
money fixing these things.
If you can improve CLS,
you get longer session time.
If you Improve LCP,
you get less bounce rate.
Figure out what these things are for you.
And you figure that out by looking
at who your real users are.
Understand what browsers they are?
Where they're coming from in the world?
What screen sizes they're on?
What network connections they're on?
All of these things to understand your
users so you can meet their expectations.
And figure out how fast
your site needs to be.
When it comes down to actually
working on your site,
always rely on that real user data.
Don't look at lighthouse,
don't look at page speed insights.
And then focus on the worst metric you
have and do the easiest things first.
You're not going to boil the ocean.
You can't do everything,
and you don't have to.
Sometimes your site is fast enough.
Work on the things that are going to
affect the things that are slowing
you down for your site, for your users.
Okay, what do you do now?
You're done with the course.
You just spent all fricking day
learning about web performance, and
you feel you know everything
you need to know.
What do you go home and do Next?
Well, here's the things I
think you should do next.
One, you should totally test your project.
So if you wanna use my speed check tool,
it's at bit.ly/speed-chex or
at this URL, or
it's on the request metrics homepage.
Test your project,
test your publicly available stuff,
make sure you know what your real data or
your crux data is telling you and
whether or not you need to care.
It's a free, easy way to get started.
If you need to dig in and you need RUM
tools, which you should totally have
RUM tools about the products so
that you can get more real-time data and
more actionable data about internet sites,
private sites sort of thing.
Install a rum tool.
I recommend request metrics.
It's awesome.
It supports me.
It makes the web better, and
it's not very expensive.
Coming soon, maybe spring 2025,
maybe sooner.
We're going to do
an intermediary web performance.
If it's already available, you should
go ahead and sign up and do that next.
We're going to talk about a bunch more
advanced techniques around caching,
around IAP issues, around JavaScript
issues, around API calling,
tons of other cool stuff.
And last, you should tag me and
tell me the stuff you learned and
how fast you made your website.
All of my information is up on this if you
go to bit.ly/sup-todd, you'll get a little
contact page for me with my socials,
links to my projects, that sort of stuff.
Some links to schedule time with me.
Tag me on LinkedIn.
Tell me what you learned.
Tell me, like what kinds of stuff you did.
That would be awesome.
This was fundamentals of web performance.
Thank you so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]